improvements to the observabaility strategy (#715)
kyma-project/community: concepts/observability-strategy/configurable-tracing/03-tracing-pocs.md

For that, it is crucial to understand the impact of a permanently enabled sampling strategy on the used infrastructure, mainly Istio and Kubernetes.

The [Istio trace sampling rate analysis](./pocs/sampling-rate/README.md) investigation does that in the following way:

Running a Istio performance test with high load, and compare the following settings:

> - 1% sampling to otel-collector with noop exporter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 1% sampling to Otel Collector with noop exporter
```

- 100% sampling to non-existing URL
Comparing the resource consumption and throughput of the envoys, and checking other relevant Kubernetes components for suspicious effects like CoreDNS.

Conclusions:

> - Client-based sampling should not be set to 100% by default, it must be a user controlled configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Client-based sampling should not be set to 100% by default, it must be a user-controlled configuration
```

> - Tracing should be turned off if there is no endpoint available to push the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there is no endpoint available to push the data, tracing should be deactivated
```

## Tail-based Sampling

> Opposed to head-based sampling, tail-based sampling makes the decision at the end of the entire flow, when all the trace data has been gathered. This kind of sampling decision is made at the collector level.

Reviewer: oops my bad

> With tail-based sampling, it's possible to create advanced rules to filter out traces based on any **span** property, including their attributes, duration etc. With tail-based sampling, we can collect data like usually long operations and rare errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With tail-based sampling, it's possible to create advanced rules to filter out traces based on any **span** property, including their attributes, duration etc. With tail-based sampling, we can collect data like unusually long operations and rare errors.
```

I think this was supposed to say "unusually", not quite sure.

Policy-based sampling processor configuration offers wide capabilities to configure sampling according to application needs, but this capability brings its own complexity. 

> At the time this document is written (Sept '22), tail-based sampling processor is still in a *beta* state and not fully tested.

Reviewer: 😵‍💫

## How pipeline isolation can be achieved, is it feasible at all?

> The goal of the TracePipeline is to push trace data to multiple destinations using a different set of processors or sampling strategies. How can an isolation of these pipelines be achieved based on the otel-collector? If one destination is down, can the other destination be continued?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of the TracePipeline is to push trace data to multiple destinations using a different set of processors or sampling strategies. How can an isolation of these pipelines be achieved based on the Otel Collector? If one destination is down, can the other destination be continued?
```

> ## Modularization - 3 modules or one telemetry module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Modularization - three modules or one telemetry module
```

Benefits of one module
- Shared caches for the controllers possible
- less maintenance (3 images instead of one, think of security scanning, kube-builder updates)
- shared packages possible without spending time in dependency tree maintenance

Benefits of three modules

> - There are 3 independent domains sharing a lot of common things, it sounds more natural to model them individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There are 3 independent domains sharing a lot of common things, it sounds more natural to model them individually
```

> - Feature selection (on/off) is natively supported (no sub-attributes which are doing something similar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Feature selection (on/off) is natively supported (no sub-attributes with similar purposes)
```

## Modularization - Re-use the deployer library of the module-manager

> For managing the otel-collector deployment, can the new library of the module-manager be used already? Is deletion supported? What artifact format should be used?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can the new library of the Module Manager be used already to manage the Otel Collector deployment? Is deletion supported? What artifact format should be used?
```

> ## Otel-Collector base setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Otel Collector base setup
```

> What processors and extensions the base setup needs to use, what are the configuration options?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which processors and extensions does the base setup need? What are the configuration options?
```
